Rewrite `Game mode/osu!catch` (#12896)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Game_mode/osu!catch/en.md

In osu!catch, the player is supposed to catch falling fruits by controlling a **catcher** (also known as a "platter") to the rhythm of the music. By default the keys to control the catchers movements are:

- the left `<-` and right `->` or `Z` and `X` keys to move the catcher left and right respectively.
- Press and hold the left `Shift` key or the left mouse button to activate a *dash* state which is recognisable by it making the platter *glow brightly* and leaving an afterimage while moving. Moving while in the dash state is **twice as fast** compared to regular movement.  

The placement of the mouse cursor *does not* affect gameplay unless the [relax](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Relax) mod is enabled, which makes the platter directly follow the cursor. 

## Hit objects

osu!catch has 3 main [hit objects](/wiki/gameplay/Hit_object) the player interacts with:

- Fruits
- Juice streams
- Banana showers

### Fruits

![An image of fruits](/wiki/shared/Catch_fruits.jpg "fruits from osu!catch ")

**Fruits** are the simplest object type in osu!catch. All the user is required to do is move the catcher under the fruit so it will fall on to the plate rather than over it.

> Collected fruits will always give a `GREAT` judgement, rewarding 300 points each and increment combo by 1. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collected fruits will always give a `GREAT` judgement, rewarding 300 points each and incrementing combo by 1.
```

**Hyperfruits** are special kinds of fruits that will appear when the next fruit is too far away for it to be possible to catch it with a normal dash.

Collecting a hyperfruit will upgrade the catcher's dash into a *hyperdash*, which allows the platter to move just fast enough to catch the next fruit. While performing a hyperdash, the catcher glows red and leaves a temporary red *afterimage* at the collection point. A hyperdash will be active until the next fruit is caught or dropped.  

Hyperfruits can be recognised by a signature red colour surrounding the hyperfruit itself by default.

## Difficulty settings

osu!catch has 3 difficulty settings which each affecting the gameplay differently:

- [Circle size](/wiki/Beatmap/Circle_size)
- [HP drain](/wiki/Beatmap/HP_drain_rate)
- [Approach rate](/wiki/Beatmap/Approach_rate)
- [Overall difficulty](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty) (ScoreV1 only)

Each setting is often referred to as CS, HP, AR, and OD respectively.

In osu!(lazer), each of the settings can be altered to the user's preferences using the [Difficulty Adjust](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Difficulty_Adjust) mod.

## Play styles

> *Main page: [play style page under osu!catch](/wiki/Gameplay/Play_style#osu!catch).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Main page: [Play style § osu!catch](/wiki/Gameplay/Play_style#osu!catch).*
```

<!-- TODO: replace images to be taken from osu!(lazer) with the osu! argon skin.--> 

<!-- Mostly since new players will touch lazer rather than stable in the future its just better to do it this way (this is also why the catcher is mostly referred to as 'platter', the argon skin uses a floating platter, not a character)-->

# osu!catch

osu!catch, formerly known as *Catch the Beat* or *CtB*, is a game mode that requires the player to control a platter that has the ability to *catch* falling fruits in tune to the beat.

> ## Song Selection

Reviewer 2: headings should be in sentence case (this is a rather old article)

```suggestion
## Song selection
```

To access the osu!catch game mode press `Ctrl` + `3` at the same time, or use the the `Mode` button and select `osu!catch` in osu!(stable) or click the ![](/wiki/shared/mode/catch.png) icon on the top of the screen for osu!(lazer).

> To download more beatmaps for osu!catch, head to the [beatmap listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets) on the osu! website, or while in osu!(lazer) press `Ctrl` + `B` or click the `Beatmap listing` button 

Reviewer 2: should match casing when referring to ui elements

```suggestion
To download more beatmaps for osu!catch, head to the [beatmap listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets) on the osu! website, or while in osu!(lazer) press `Ctrl` + `B` or click the `beatmap listing` button 
```

![osu!(lazer) beatmap listing button](/wiki/shared/lazer_beatmap_listing.png)

## Player control

> In osu!catch, the player is supposed to catch falling fruits by controlling a **platter** (also known as a "catcher") to the rhythm of the music. By default the keys to control the platters movements are:

Reviewer 2: fwiw the current catcher skin in lazer may be subject to change, so idk about changing core terminology like this
i don't think "catcher" implies a player character anyway

Author: > the current catcher skin in lazer may be subject to change

I forgot that these skins are can still recieve changes in the future, will change

- the left `<-` and right `->` or `Z` and `X` keys to move the catcher left and right respectively.

> - Press and hold the `leftShift` key or the Left Mouse Button to activate a *dash* state which is recognizable by it making the platter *glow brightly* and leaving an afterimage while moving. Moving while in the dash state makes the player move **2 times faster** then normally.

Reviewer 2: `Shift` is usually written as so and i don't think any other article distinguishes between the left and right keys

```suggestion
- Press and hold the left `Shift` key or the left mouse button to activate a *dash* state which is recognisable by it making the platter *glow brightly* and leaving an afterimage while moving. Moving while in the dash state is **twice as fast** than normal.
```

The placement of the mouse cursor *does not* affect gameplay unless [Relax](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Relax) mod is enabled, which makes the platter directly follow the cursor. 

> ## Hitobjects

Reviewer 2: i see how it can look weird but everywhere this is mentioned includes a space

```suggestion
## Hit objects
```

> osu!catch has 3 main [hitobjects](/wiki/gameplay/Hit_object) the player interacts with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
osu!catch has 3 main [hit objects](/wiki/gameplay/Hit_object) the player interacts with:
```

- Fruits

> - Juice Streams
> - Banana Showers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Juice streams
- Banana showers
```

### Fruits

![Fruits](/wiki/shared/Catch_fruits.jpg "osu!catch fruits")

> **Fruits** are the simplest object type in osu!catch, all the user is required to do is move the platter under the fruit so it will fall on to the plate rather than over it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Fruits** are the simplest object type in osu!catch. All the user is required to do is move the platter under the fruit so it will fall on to the plate rather than over it.
```

Collected fruits will always give a `GREAT` judgement, rewarding 300 points each and increment combo by 1. 

### Juice streams 

A typical **juice stream** will contains two fruits at its start and end. Between the start and the end there will also be a path made out of small and large droplets, with the large droplets acting as slider ticks. Juice streams, similarly to sliders, can be reversed.

> Small droplets give 10 points each and don't affect combo, while large droplets give 30 points, increment combo by 1 if caught. Unlike small droplets, missing a large droplet resets the combo

Reviewer 2: wiki articles should have expanded contractions

```suggestion
Small droplets give 10 points each and do not affect combo, while large droplets give 30 points each and increase the combo by 1 if caught. Unlike small droplets, missing a large droplet resets the combo.
```

### Banana showers

![Bananas](/wiki/shared/Catch_bananas.jpg "osu!catch bananas")

> While a **banana shower** is active, large bananas will pour from the sky and shirk down. Catching bananas (or missing them) doesn't affect combo, but if caught they reward 1,100 score each and regenerate a portion of the players missing health. Each banana will always reward 1,100 score regardless of mod and combo multiplier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While a **banana shower** is active, large bananas will pour from the sky and shrink down. Catching bananas (or missing them) does not affect combo, but if caught they reward 1,100 score each and regenerate a portion of the players missing health. Each banana will always reward 1,100 score regardless of mod and combo multiplier.
```

> Notably, [Auto](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Auto) mod will go above and beyond to catch *all* of the bananas without fail, even if its humanly impossible.

Reviewer 2: it's not just humanly impossible - auto disregards gameplay mechanics and moves the catcher at arbitrary speeds (or i guess it plays on relax)

```suggestion
Notably, [Auto](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Auto) mod will go above and beyond to catch *all* of the bananas without fail, even if it is not possible in normal gameplay.
```

## Hyperfruits

![Hyperfruits, and catcher hyperdashing from collecting previous hyperfruit](/wiki/shared/Catch_hyperfruits.jpg "osu!catch hyperfruits")

**Hyperfruits** are special kinds of fruits that will appear when the next fruit is too far away for it to be possible to catch it with a normal dash.

> Collecting a hyperfruit will upgrade the catchers dash into a *hyperdash*, which allows the platter to move just fast enough to catch the next fruit. While performing a hyperdash, the catcher glows red and leaves a temporary red *afterimage* at the collection point. A hyperdash will be active until the next fruit was caught or dropped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Collecting a hyperfruit will upgrade the catcher's dash into a *hyperdash*, which allows the platter to move just fast enough to catch the next fruit. While performing a hyperdash, the catcher glows red and leaves a temporary red *afterimage* at the collection point. A hyperdash will be active until the next fruit is caught or dropped.
```

Hyperfruits can be recognised by a signature red colour surrounding the hyperfruit itself by default.

## Difficulty settings

osu!catch has 3 difficulty settings which each affecting the gameplay differently:

- [Circle size](/wiki/Beatmap/Circle_size)
- [HP drain](/wiki/Beatmap/HP_drain_rate)
- [Approach rate](/wiki/Beatmap/Approach_rate)
- [Overall difficulty](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty) (ScoreV1 only)

> Each setting is often referred to as CS, HP, AR and OD respectively

Reviewer 2: wiki uses oxford comma everywhere

alternatively, these be added as parentheses in the list

```suggestion
Each setting is often referred to as CS, HP, AR, and OD respectively.
```

Author: Forgot about that, fixed

> In osu!(lazer), each of the settings can be altered to the users preferences using the [Difficulty Adjust](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Difficulty_Adjust) mod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In osu!(lazer), each of the settings can be altered to the user's preferences using the [Difficulty Adjust](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Difficulty_Adjust) mod.
```

> ## Play Styles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Play styles
```

> *Refer to [Play Style page under osu!catch](/wiki/Gameplay/Play_style#osu!catch).*

Reviewer 2: there's a specific format for these

```suggestion
*Main page: [Play Style § osu!catch](/wiki/Gameplay/Play_style#osu!catch).*
```

- [Combo](/wiki/Gameplay/Combo_(score_multiplier)) is a score multiplier: clearing a hit object contributes more to the total score when combo is high and vice versa. In osu!catch, combo may be [broken](/wiki/Gameplay/Judgement/Combobreak) by missing a large fruit or a drop, which also decreases [health](/wiki/Gameplay/Health).
- [Accuracy](/wiki/Gameplay/Accuracy#osu!catch) shows how many objects were caught in total. Small droplets decrease accuracy when missed, but do not break combo.

After completing a beatmap, the score is assigned a [grade](/wiki/Gameplay/Grade#osu!catch) - a short accuracy assessment in the form of a single letter. A golden or silver SS denotes 100% accuracy, and everything else, from S to D, depends on the amount of missed objects.

## Skinning

> *Main page: [skinning page of osu!catch](/wiki/Skinning/osu!catch)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Main page: [Skinning/osu!catch](/wiki/Skinning/osu!catch)*
```

## Beatmapping

### osu! conversion notes

> - Horizontal-axis placement determines the falling point of the fruits(hit circle) or juice streams(slider).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Horizontal-axis placement determines the falling point of the fruits (hit circle) or juice streams (slider).
```

- The appearance is based on the timing set to clear it, as usual.
- Speed of fruit trails is similar to slider ball speed.

> - Spinners creates banana showers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Spinners create banana showers.
```

**Note:** Hyperfruits are automatically generated.

## Trivia

### Gameplay

- [Auto](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Auto) mod will *always* collect all the bananas and the player name will be shown as *"osu!salad"*.
- If `Hit-error` is enabled, it will always use `Colour` setting.
- The catcher can be moved around during any break.
- The catcher has a miss animation, much like osu!taiko pippidon's miss animation.
- The first default catcher was a chibified version of Ryuuta Ippongi (from [the ouendan series](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osu!_Tatakae!_Ouendan)). He was replaced in 2014 by current default catcher and mascot, [Yuzu](/wiki/Mascots#yuzu).

### History

![osu!catch logo in the Special Modes](/wiki/shared/Ctb_logo.jpg "Catch the Beat logo in Special Mode")

> - Until april 10th 2012 (2012-04-10), osu!catch maps could not be ranked or be included in ranked maps. However, this is no longer the case and mappers may make and rank osu!catch-specific difficulties and mapsets, provided they follow the [ranking criteria](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Ranking_criteria/osu%21catch).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Until April 10th 2012, osu!catch maps could not be ranked or be included in ranked maps. However, this is no longer the case and mappers may make and rank osu!catch-specific difficulties and mapsets, provided they follow the [ranking criteria](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Ranking_criteria/osu%21catch).
```
